decision-support-cvrp
=====================

Custom implementation of heuristics and meta-heuristics for the Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem (CVRP): e.g. Clarke &amp; Wright Savings algorithm (CWS), Simulated Annealing (SA) and Genetic Algorithms (GAs).

# Available options

-h, --help
    Here's the help page.

--dataset <value>
    CVRP dataset to be fed to the algorithms. Should be in the same format as
    in http://www.coin-or.org/SYMPHONY/branchandcut/VRP/index.htm.
    e.g. --dataset=instances/A-n32-k5.vrp

--cws_version <value>
    Version of the CWS algorithm to run (parallel or sequential).
    e.g. for the parallel version use --cws_version=p
    Use 'p' for running the parallel version, 's' for running the sequential
    version.

--sa
    Apply a Simulated Annealing (SA) run on the solution provided by the CWS
    algorithm. By default SA is applied over the solution previously derived
    by the CWS algorithm. SA can work on a randomly generated solution if (1)
    the the --cws_version isn't used together with --sa or (2) if the
    --sa-random option is used.

--sa_random
    Bypass any solution previously derived by the CWS algorithm and run SA
    over a randomly generated solution.

--sa_cooling <value>
    Cooling ratio parameter for SA. Default is 0.005

--sa_init_temp <value>
    Initial value for the temperature parameter for SA. If omitted, the method
    used in Osman1993 is applied to determine it.

--sa_termination <value>
    Termination condition for SA, i.e. the number of neighbor search cycles
    performed by the SA method for each temperature epoch. Default is 25000.

--sa_halting <value>
    Halting criterion parameter for SA, i.e. the number of max. temperature
    epochs a current solution determined via SA is allowed to remain
    unchanged. The breach of this condition effectively stops the SA
    procedure. Default is 300.

--ga
    Run a Genetic Algorithm (GA) over a population generated after the results
    given by the CWS algorithm. By default GA considers in its initial
    population the solutions generated by the CWS algorithm (parallel or
    sequential, according to the --cws_version option) and CWS + SA (if --sa
    is used). To bypass this and create an initial population completely
    formed by random individuals, use the --ga_random option.

--ga_random
    Bypass any solution previously derived by the CWS or SA algorithm and run
    GA over a population of randomly generated solutions.

--ga_generation <value>
    Number of generations to be considered by the GA. Default is 10000.

--ga_population <value>
    Population size to be considered by the GA. Default is 120.

--ga_mutation <value>
    Mutation probability to be considered by the GA. Use values between 0.0
    and 1.0 (inclusive). Default is 0.5.

--matlab
    Create a .m file for graphical display of the final solution on MATLAB.
